# Master-thesis
A Deep Learning based Approach for Intrusion Detection System

Abstract — The internet has become a necessary tool in our life. The convenience of online services has led to many applications. However, as they are increasingly popular, the attacks on them are on the rise dramatically in recent years. An intrusion detection system (IDS) has been considered as one of the main defense mechanisms. Recently, due to the popularity of machine learning, more and more researches have applied machine learning techniques in intrusion detection systems to improve the detection efficacy. The reason is that machine learning is a predictive model and can work very accurately on classification. In this thesis, we proposed an intelligent deep learning based approach for constructing an intrusion detection system. The proposed IDS scheme consists of a pre-clustering method for discrete features, a feature extraction scheme, and a classification mechanism. Applying a pre-clustering method on discrete features can reduce feature dimensions and effectively assist feature extraction. Furthermore, in the process of feature extraction, we employed the Winner-take-all autoencoder, which has been proven to be very effective in extracting data features and helpful on the subsequent classification work. 
The proposed IDS scheme has been conducted experiments on the NSL-KDD and CICIDS2017 datasets. The experimental results show that both Winner-take-all autoencoder and the pre-clustering method can effectively improve the accuracy of classification. The proposed IDS scheme achieves the accuracy at 87.24% on the NSL-KDD dataset, which is the highest accuracy among all the state-of-art researches. Hence, it also outperforms most researches on the CICIDS2017 dataset, with excellent accuracy of 97.92%. Therefore, the proposed IDS improves the accuracy of intrusion detection and provides a novel method for intrusion detection.
